<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [CompType][1]
    *   [Examples][2]
*   [Component][3]
    *   [getName][4]
        *   [Examples][5]
    *   [getType][6]
        *   [Examples][7]
    *   [onDestroy][8]
        *   [Parameters][9]
    *   [clone][10]
        *   [Examples][11]
    *   [serialize][12]
    *   [deserialize][13]
        *   [Parameters][14]
*   [ECS][15]
    *   [addComponentType][16]
        *   [Parameters][17]
    *   [addComponentTypes][18]
        *   [Parameters][19]
    *   [addEventType][20]
        *   [Parameters][21]
    *   [addEventTypes][22]
        *   [Parameters][23]
    *   [addMainSystem][24]
        *   [Parameters][25]
    *   [addStartupSystem][26]
        *   [Parameters][27]
    *   [addShutdownSystem][28]
        *   [Parameters][29]
    *   [addMainSystems][30]
        *   [Parameters][31]
    *   [addStartupSystems][32]
        *   [Parameters][33]
    *   [addShutdownSystems][34]
        *   [Parameters][35]
    *   [toggleSystem][36]
        *   [Parameters][37]
    *   [enableSystem][38]
        *   [Parameters][39]
    *   [disableSystem][40]
        *   [Parameters][41]
    *   [insertPlugin][42]
        *   [Parameters][43]
    *   [insertPlugins][44]
        *   [Parameters][45]
    *   [hasComponent][46]
        *   [Parameters][47]
    *   [frame][48]
    *   [spawn][49]
        *   [Parameters][50]
        *   [Examples][51]
    *   [entity][52]
        *   [Parameters][53]
    *   [destroy][54]
        *   [Parameters][55]
    *   [roots][56]
        *   [Parameters][57]
    *   [addRoot][58]
        *   [Parameters][59]
    *   [removeRoot][60]
        *   [Parameters][61]
    *   [hasResource][62]
        *   [Parameters][63]
    *   [insertResource][64]
        *   [Parameters][65]
    *   [hasLocalResource][66]
        *   [Parameters][67]
    *   [insertLocalResource][68]
        *   [Parameters][69]
    *   [getResource][70]
        *   [Parameters][71]
    *   [getLocalResource][72]
        *   [Parameters][73]
    *   [removeResource][74]
        *   [Parameters][75]
    *   [removeLocalResource][76]
        *   [Parameters][77]
    *   [getEventWriter][78]
        *   [Parameters][79]
    *   [getEventReader][80]
        *   [Parameters][81]
    *   [query][82]
        *   [Parameters][83]
    *   [run][84]
        *   [Parameters][85]
    *   [startup][86]
    *   [entityCount][87]
    *   [update][88]
    *   [shutdown][89]
    *   [stop][90]
    *   [wipe][91]
*   [Entity][92]
    *   [Parameters][93]
    *   [has][94]
        *   [Parameters][95]
    *   [insert][96]
        *   [Parameters][97]
        *   [Examples][98]
    *   [get][99]
        *   [Parameters][100]
        *   [Examples][101]
    *   [ecs][102]
    *   [delete][103]
        *   [Parameters][104]
        *   [Examples][105]
    *   [destroy][106]
    *   [id][107]
    *   [parent][108]
        *   [Parameters][109]
    *   [children][110]
        *   [Parameters][111]
    *   [addChild][112]
        *   [Parameters][113]
    *   [addChildren][114]
        *   [Parameters][115]
    *   [removeChild][116]
        *   [Parameters][117]
*   [ECSEvent][118]
    *   [getName][119]
    *   [getType][120]
*   [EventType][121]
    *   [Examples][122]
*   [EventHandler][123]
    *   [Parameters][124]
*   [EventWriter][125]
    *   [Parameters][126]
    *   [send][127]
        *   [Parameters][128]
*   [EventReader][129]
    *   [Parameters][130]
    *   [available][131]
    *   [empty][132]
    *   [get][133]
    *   [clear][134]
*   [ECSPlugin][135]
*   [CompTypeMod][136]
*   [ModType][137]
*   [With][138]
    *   [Parameters][139]
*   [Without][140]
    *   [Parameters][141]
*   [ExtractCompList][142]
*   [QueryDef][143]
    *   [Properties][144]
*   [QueryHandler][145]
    *   [Parameters][146]
*   [QueryResults][147]
    *   [Parameters][148]
    *   [size][149]
    *   [empty][150]
    *   [results][151]
        *   [Parameters][152]
    *   [single][153]
    *   [entities][154]
    *   [entity][155]
*   [ResType][156]
*   [Resource][157]
    *   [getName][158]
    *   [getType][159]
*   [System][160]
*   [AsyncSystem][161]
*   [SystemContext][162]
    *   [Properties][163]
*   [easings][164]
*   [Vec2][165]
    *   [Parameters][166]
    *   [x][167]
    *   [y][168]
    *   [add][169]
        *   [Parameters][170]
    *   [sub][171]
        *   [Parameters][172]
    *   [mul][173]
        *   [Parameters][174]
    *   [div][175]
        *   [Parameters][176]
    *   [dot][177]
        *   [Parameters][178]
    *   [width][179]
    *   [height][180]
    *   [perpRight][181]
    *   [perpLeft][182]
    *   [unit][183]
    *   [angle][184]
    *   [angleTo][185]
        *   [Parameters][186]
    *   [setAngle][187]
        *   [Parameters][188]
    *   [mag][189]
    *   [magSq][190]
    *   [setMag][191]
        *   [Parameters][192]
    *   [set][193]
        *   [Parameters][194]
    *   [setFromAngle][195]
        *   [Parameters][196]
    *   [setFromPolar][197]
        *   [Parameters][198]
    *   [random][199]
    *   [clone][200]
    *   [toArray][201]
    *   [toObject][202]
    *   [toString][203]
    *   [clamp][204]
        *   [Parameters][205]
    *   [clampMag][206]
        *   [Parameters][207]
    *   [lerp][208]
        *   [Parameters][209]
    *   [equals][210]
        *   [Parameters][211]
    *   [closeTo][212]
        *   [Parameters][213]
    *   [distanceTo][214]
        *   [Parameters][215]
    *   [distanceToSq][216]
        *   [Parameters][217]
    *   [manhattan][218]
    *   [manhattanDistanceTo][219]
        *   [Parameters][220]
    *   [round][221]
    *   [floor][222]
    *   [ceil][223]
    *   [roundToZero][224]
    *   [min][225]
        *   [Parameters][226]
    *   [max][227]
        *   [Parameters][228]
    *   [map][229]
        *   [Parameters][230]
    *   [serialize][231]
    *   [freeze][232]
    *   [from][233]
        *   [Parameters][234]
    *   [fromAngle][235]
        *   [Parameters][236]
    *   [fromPolar][237]
        *   [Parameters][238]
    *   [random][239]
    *   [add][240]
        *   [Parameters][241]
    *   [sub][242]
        *   [Parameters][243]
    *   [mul][244]
        *   [Parameters][245]
    *   [div][246]
        *   [Parameters][247]
    *   [unit][248]
        *   [Parameters][249]
    *   [fromString][250]
        *   [Parameters][251]
    *   [clamp][252]
        *   [Parameters][253]
    *   [clampMag][254]
        *   [Parameters][255]
    *   [lerp][256]
        *   [Parameters][257]
    *   [round][258]
        *   [Parameters][259]
    *   [floor][260]
        *   [Parameters][261]
    *   [ceil][262]
        *   [Parameters][263]
    *   [roundToZero][264]
        *   [Parameters][265]
    *   [min][266]
        *   [Parameters][267]
    *   [max][268]
        *   [Parameters][269]
    *   [map][270]
        *   [Parameters][271]
    *   [deserialize][272]
        *   [Parameters][273]

## CompType

Type: function (...args: [Array][274]\<any>): T

### Examples

````javascript
In order to use a component `T` in the ECS, you must first register it's `CompType<T>` in the ECS component registry.
```ts
class MyComp extends Component { ... }

// anywhere with a reference to the ECS you want to use
// usually where the ecs is created or in a plugin
ecs.addComponentType(MyComp);


In that example, the value `MyComp` being passed into method is of type `CompType<MyComp>`
```
````

## Component

The class that all ECS components must inherit from

### getName

#### Examples

```javascript
class MyComp extends Component { ... }

const foo = new MyComp();

// returns 'MyComp'
foo.getName()
```

Returns **[string][275]** The name of this component's type

### getType

#### Examples

```javascript
class MyComp extends Component { ... }

const foo = new MyComp();

// returns MyComp
foo.getType()
```

Returns **[CompType][1]\<this>** this component's type

### onDestroy

#### Parameters

*   `ecs` **[ECS][15]** A reference to the ECS.
*   `eid` **[number][276]** This component's entity ID number.

Returns **void**&#x20;

### clone

#### Examples

```javascript
class MyComp extends Component {
	...

	clone() {
		return new MyComp(this.foo, this.bar, ...);
	}
}
```

Returns **[Component][3]** A deep copy of this component. Can be overridden if this behavior isn't desired, for example if the component contains a reference to another object that the clone should maintain a reference to, rather than copying it.

### serialize

Returns **[string][275]**&#x20;

### deserialize

#### Parameters

*   `str` **[string][275]** A serialized component, usually created by a component's `serialize` method.

Returns **[Component][3]**&#x20;

## ECS

Creates ECS instance

### addComponentType

Adds specified component type to the component registry.
All components must be registered before they can be used.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[CompType][1]** Any component type

Returns **any** `this`

### addComponentTypes

Adds all specified component types to the component registry.

#### Parameters

*   `types` **...[Array][274]<[CompType][1]>** Array of any component types

Returns **any** `this`

### addEventType

Adds specified event type to the event registry.
All events must be registered before they can be used.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[EventType][121]** Any event type

Returns **any** `this`

### addEventTypes

Adds all specified event types to the event registry.

#### Parameters

*   `types` **...[Array][274]<[EventType][121]>** Array of any event types

Returns **any** `this`

### addMainSystem

Adds specified system to ECS as a `main` system
All `main` systems run once per frame

#### Parameters

*   `system` **([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161])** A synchronous or asynchronous ECS system

Returns **any** `this`

### addStartupSystem

Adds specified system to ECS as a `startup` system
All `startup` systems run once when the ECS first starts up

#### Parameters

*   `system` **([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161])** A synchronous or asynchronous ECS system

Returns **any** `this`

### addShutdownSystem

Adds specified system to ECS as a `shutdown` system
All `shutdown` systems run once when the ECS shuts down

#### Parameters

*   `system` **([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161])** A synchronous or asynchronous ECS system

Returns **any** `this`

### addMainSystems

Adds all specified `main` systems

#### Parameters

*   `systems` **...[Array][274]<([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161])>** Array of synchronous or asynchronous ECS systems

Returns **any** `this`

### addStartupSystems

Adds all specified `startup` systems

#### Parameters

*   `systems` **...[Array][274]<([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161])>** Array of synchronous or asynchronous ECS systems

Returns **any** `this`

### addShutdownSystems

Adds all specified `shutdown` systems

#### Parameters

*   `systems` **...[Array][274]<[System][160]>** Array of synchronous or asynchronous ECS systems

Returns **any** `this`

### toggleSystem

Toggles the specified system's enabled state. If the specified system does not exist on the ECS then an error will be thrown.

Systems that have been disabled will not run.

#### Parameters

*   `system` **([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161] | [string][275])** synchronous or asynchronous system, or system name

Returns **this** `this`

### enableSystem

Enables the specified system. If the specified system does not exist on the ECS then an error will be thrown.

Systems that have been disabled will not run.

#### Parameters

*   `system` **([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161] | [string][275])** synchronous or asynchronous system, or system name

Returns **any** `this`

### disableSystem

Disables the specified system. If the specified system does not exist on the ECS then an error will be thrown.

Systems that have been disabled will not run.

#### Parameters

*   `system` **([System][160] | [string][275])** synchronous or asynchronous system, or system name

Returns **any** `this`

### insertPlugin

Inserts the specified plugin into the ECS

#### Parameters

*   `plugin` **[ECSPlugin][135]**&#x20;

Returns **any** `this`

### insertPlugins

Inserts all specified plugins to the ECS

#### Parameters

*   `plugins` **...[Array][274]<[ECSPlugin][135]>**&#x20;

Returns **any** `this`

### hasComponent

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[CompType][1]** Any component type

Returns **any** Boolean indicating whether the specified component type has been registered to the ECS.

### frame

Returns **any** The current frame number.

### spawn

Used to create a new entity with a unique ID number and with all specified components automatically inserted.

#### Parameters

*   `comps` **...[Array][274]<[Component][3]>** Array of component instances to be inserted to the new entity. If omitted then the entity will be empty.

#### Examples

```javascript
// Returns new Entity instance with no components inserted
ecs.spawn();

// Returns new Entity instance with and instance of MyComp automatically inserted
ecs.spawn(new MyComp())
```

Returns **any** `Entity` instance of the newly created entity

### entity

Used to create `Entity` instances from raw entity IDs.

#### Parameters

*   `eid` **[number][276]** Entity ID number

Returns **any** `Entity` instance associated with the specified ID

### destroy

Destroys the specified entity and it's components, as well all of it's children if it has any.

#### Parameters

*   `eid` **[number][276]** ID number of the entity.
*   `force` **[boolean][277]?** If true, then all data associated with the specified ID will be destroyed whether or not there is technically an entity associated with that ID. If false or omitted and the specified entity does not exist, then a warning will be emitted and the method will abort

Returns **any** `this`

### roots

#### Parameters

*   `mods` **...[Array][274]<[CompTypeMod][136]>**&#x20;

Returns **[Array][274]<[number][276]>** An array containing the entity IDs of all root entities that meet the component type modifiers specified. If no modifiers are specified then it will return all root entity eids.

### addRoot

#### Parameters

*   `eid` **[number][276]**&#x20;

### removeRoot

#### Parameters

*   `eid` **[number][276]**&#x20;

### hasResource

#### Parameters

*   `res` **[ResType][156]**&#x20;

Returns **[boolean][277]** Boolean indicating whether the specified resource type exists in the ECS

### insertResource

Dynamically inserts the specified resource into the ECS. There can only be one instance of any given resource type in the ECS

#### Parameters

*   `res` **[Resource][157]** Any resource instance
*   `replace` **[boolean][277]?** If true then if the is already an instance of the specified resource then it will be replaced with the new one. If false or omitted then an error will be thrown if there is already an instance of the specified resource in the ECS.

Returns **any** `this`

### hasLocalResource

#### Parameters

*   `res` **[ResType][156]**&#x20;

Returns **[boolean][277]** Boolean indicating whether or not the specified resource type exists in the current system context

### insertLocalResource

Dynamically inserts the specified resource in the current `system context`. There can only be one instance of any given resource type in the local `system context`, however different systems can have the same local resources because they are locally scoped.

#### Parameters

*   `res` **[Resource][157]** Any resource instance
*   `replace` **[boolean][277]?** If true then if the is already an instance of the specified resource then it will be replaced with the new one. If false or omitted then an error will be thrown if there is already an instance of the specified resource in the system context.

Returns **any** `this`

### getResource

Retrieves the resource instance of a specified resource type on the ECS. If the resource doesn't exist then a warning will be emitted.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[ResType][156]\<T>** Resource type
*   `T`  Resource instance

Returns **(T | null)** The resource instance or null if the resource doesn't exist

### getLocalResource

Retrieves a locally scoped resource of a specified type on the current system context. If the resource doesn't exist then a warning will be emitted.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[ResType][156]\<T>** Resource type
*   `T`  Resource instance

Returns **(T | null)** The resource instance or null if the resource doesn't exist.

### removeResource

Removes the specified resource from the ECS. If the specified resource does not exist then a warning will be emitted.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[ResType][156]** Resource type to be removed

Returns **any** Boolean indicating whether or not the removal was successful

### removeLocalResource

Removes the specified local resource from the current system context

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[ResType][156]** Resource type to be removed

Returns **any** Boolean indicating whether or not the removal was successful

### getEventWriter

Retrieves the current system's own locally scoped event writer associated with the specified event type. If the event type has not been registered with the ECS an error will be thrown.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[EventType][121]\<T>** Event type

Returns **[EventWriter][125]\<T>** `EventWriter` associated with the specified event type

### getEventReader

Retrieves the current system's own locally scoped event reader associated with the specified event type. If the event type has not been registered with the ECS an error will be thrown.

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[EventType][121]\<T>** Event type

Returns **[EventReader][129]\<T>** `EventReader` associated with the specified event type

### query

Searches the ECS based on the specified component types and component type modifiers to curate any combination of components and entities in any order.
The searches are not performance intensive and extremely optimized for use in the ECS.

#### Parameters

*   `types` **\[...T]** Tuple array of all the component types being queried
*   `mods` **...\[...M]** Array of component type modifiers to filter the results

Returns **[QueryResults][147]\<T, M>** Locally scoped `QueryResults` instance associated with the specified component types and component type mods

### run

Starts the ECS.
This runs all the startup systems and subsequently begins the main loop

#### Parameters

*   `frameTime` **[number][276]?** Use to specify time in ms each frame should try to take. If omitted frames will run as fast as possible. Only works in servers.

Returns **any** `Promise<this>`

### startup

Runs all startup systems

Returns **any** `Promise<this>`

### entityCount

Returns **any** Amount of entities there are

### update

Runs all of the main systems once without looping

Returns **any** `Promise<this>`;

### shutdown

Runs all shutdown systems

Returns **any** `Promise<this>`

### stop

Stops the main loop. If the main loop isn't running then an error will be thrown. Does not run shutdown systems

Returns **any** `this`

### wipe

Destroys all component instances on the ECS

## Entity

Class that provides functionality for manipulating entities.

You should NOT directly instantiate `Entity`, In order to gain access to an Entity from an entity ID number, use the following ECS method

    // eid is is your entity ID number
    const myEntity = ecs.entity(eid);

### Parameters

*   `ecs` **[ECS][15]**&#x20;
*   `compRef` **[Map][278]<[CompType][1], [Array][274]<[Component][3]>>**&#x20;
*   `queries` **[Map][278]<[QueryDef][143], [QueryHandler][145]>**&#x20;
*   `nodeRef` **[Map][278]<[number][276], TreeNode>**&#x20;
*   `eid` **[number][276]**&#x20;

### has

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[CompType][1]**&#x20;

Returns **[boolean][277]** boolean indicating whether there is a component of the specified type associated with this entity

### insert

Inserts component instances into this entity

#### Parameters

*   `comps` **...[Array][274]<[Component][3]>**&#x20;

#### Examples

```javascript
myEntity.insert(new myComp1(), new myComp2());
```

Returns **this** A reference to this entity to allow for method chaining

### get

#### Parameters

*   `type` **[CompType][1]\<T>**&#x20;

#### Examples

```javascript
// returns an instance of MyComp
myEntity.get(MyComp);
```

Returns **(T | null)** The component of the specified type on this entity or null if it doesn't exist

### ecs

A reference to the ECS

Type: [ECS][15]

Returns **[ECS][15]**&#x20;

### delete

Deletes components of specified types from this entity

#### Parameters

*   `types` **...[Array][274]<[CompType][1]>**&#x20;

#### Examples

```javascript
const myEntity = ecs.spawn(new MyComp());

// Returns true
myEntity.has(MyComp);

myEntity.delete(MyComp);

// Returns false
myEntity.has(MyComp);
```

Returns **this** A reference to this entity to allow for method chaining

### destroy

Destroys this entity. Same as calling `ecs.destroy(myEntity.id())`

Returns **void**&#x20;

### id

Returns **[number][276]** This entity's ID number

### parent

#### Parameters

*   `newParent` **([number][276] | null)?**&#x20;
*   `newParant`  If specified, then this entity's parent will be changed to the new ID or removed if `null`

Returns **([number][276] | null)** This ID number of the entity's parent or `null` if it doesn't exist

### children

#### Parameters

*   `mods` **...[Array][274]<[CompTypeMod][136]>**&#x20;

Returns **[Array][274]<[number][276]>** An array containing the entity IDs of all of this entity's children that meet the component type modifiers specified. If no modifiers are specified then it will return all of this entity's children.

### addChild

Sets the specified entity to be a child of this entity. The child entity's parent will also be altered to reflect the new relationship.
If the specified entity is already a child of this entity then the method will quietly return.

#### Parameters

*   `child` **([Entity][52] | [number][276])** Entity instance or entity ID number

Returns **this** A reference to this entity to allow for method chaining

### addChildren

Calls `addChild` on all input entities

#### Parameters

*   `children` **...[Array][274]<([Entity][52] | [number][276])>**&#x20;

Returns **this** A reference to this entity to allow for method chaining

### removeChild

The specified entity will stop being a child of this entity and the specified child entity's parent will be set to null.
If the specified entity is not a child of this entity then the method will quietly return.

#### Parameters

*   `child` **([Entity][52] | [number][276])** Entity instance or entity ID number

Returns **this** A reference to this entity to allow for method chaining

## ECSEvent

Class which all custom ECS event types must inherit from

### getName

Returns **[string][275]** The name of this event's type

### getType

Returns **[EventType][121]\<this>** this event instance's constructor

## EventType

Type: function (...args: [Array][274]\<any>): T

### Examples

````javascript
In order to use an event `T` in the ECS, you must first register it's `EventType<T>` in the ECS event registry.
```
// example event
class MyCustomEvent extends ECSEvent { ... }

// anywhere with a reference to the ECS you want to use
// usually where the ecs is created or in a plugin
ecs.addEventType(MyCustomEvent);
```

In that example, the value `MyCustomEvent` being passed into method is of type `EventType<MyCustomEvent>`
````

## EventHandler

Class which handles event data collection and propogation for a specific custom event type in the ECS

### Parameters

*   `ecs` **[ECS][15]**&#x20;
*   `type` **[EventType][121]\<T>**&#x20;

## EventWriter

Class which provides functionality for sending ECS events

### Parameters

*   `handler` **[EventHandler][123]\<T>**&#x20;

### send

Emits an event of type `T`

#### Parameters

*   `data` **T?** If data is omitted then the event will still be emittied, however it will carry no data and be recieved as `null` by event readers listening for this event type.

Returns **void**&#x20;

## EventReader

Class which provides functionality for reading ECS events

### Parameters

*   `handler` **[EventHandler][123]\<T>**&#x20;

### available

Returns **[boolean][277]** boolean indicating whether there is at least one new unread event of type `T`

### empty

Returns **[boolean][277]** boolean indicating if there are no unread events of type `T`

### get

When called this method will mark all events as read making any unhandled events will be innaccessable.

Returns **([Array][274]<(T | null)> | null)** An array containing all unread events or null if there are none available.

### clear

Marks all events as read, making them innaccessable

Returns **void**&#x20;

## ECSPlugin

Type: function (ecs: [ECS][15]): void

## CompTypeMod

Type: function (): \[T, [CompType][1]\<C>]

## ModType

Type: (`"With"` | `"Without"`)

## With

### Parameters

*   `c` **[CompType][1]\<T>**&#x20;

Returns **[CompTypeMod][136]<`"With"`, T>** An inclusionary component type modifier of component type `T`

## Without

### Parameters

*   `c` **[CompType][1]\<T>**&#x20;

Returns **[CompTypeMod][136]<`"Without"`, T>** An exclusionary component type modifier of component type `T`

## ExtractCompList

Type: any

## QueryDef

Type: {types: T, mods: M}

### Properties

*   `types` **T**&#x20;
*   `mods` **M**&#x20;

## QueryHandler

Class which handles entity validation for it's unique query definition

### Parameters

*   `compRef` **[Map][278]<[CompType][1], [Array][274]<[Component][3]>>**&#x20;
*   `def` **[QueryDef][143]\<T, M>**&#x20;

## QueryResults

Class which provides functionality for accessing query search results

### Parameters

*   `ecs` **[ECS][15]**&#x20;
*   `handler` **[QueryHandler][145]\<T, M>**&#x20;

### size

Returns **any** Amount of entities contained in this query

### empty

Returns **any** Boolean indicating whether this query has no entities

### results

#### Parameters

*   `cb` **function (v: [ExtractCompList][142]\<T>): R?** Callback function which is applied to each element of the outer array. If omitted then the array will be returned as is

Returns **[Array][274]\<R>** Array where each element is a tuple array containing the queried components in their specified order with the optional callback function applied to each tuple of components. If the query contains no entities then an empty array will be return

### single

Only use if the query is intended to only ever have a single entity.

Returns **([ExtractCompList][142]\<T> | null)** Tuple array containing the queried components of the only entity in the query. If there is more than entity in the query then only the first entity's components will be returned and a warning will be emitted. If the query is empty then the method will return `null`

### entities

Returns **[Array][274]<[number][276]>** Array of entity IDs contained in the query. If the query has no entities then an empty array will be returned

### entity

Returns **([Entity][52] | null)** `Entity` instance of the only entity in the query. If there is more than one entity in the query then only the first one will be returned and a warning will be emitted. If the query is empty then null will be returned

## ResType

Type: function (...args: [Array][274]\<any>): T

## Resource

Class which all ECS resources must inherit from.

### getName

Returns **[string][275]** The name of this resources's type

### getType

Returns **[ResType][156]\<this>** the resource's type

## System

Type: function (ecs: [ECS][15]): void

## AsyncSystem

Type: function (ecs: [ECS][15]): [Promise][279]\<void>

## SystemContext

Type: {executor: ([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161]), async: [boolean][277], name: [string][275], enabled: [boolean][277], resources: [Map][278]<[ResType][156], any>, queries: [Map][278]<[QueryDef][143], [QueryResults][147]>, readers: [Map][278]<[EventType][121], [EventReader][129]\<any>>, writers: [Map][278]<[EventType][121], [EventWriter][125]\<any>>}

### Properties

*   `executor` **([System][160] | [AsyncSystem][161])**&#x20;
*   `async` **[boolean][277]**&#x20;
*   `name` **[string][275]**&#x20;
*   `enabled` **[boolean][277]**&#x20;
*   `resources` **[Map][278]<[ResType][156], any>**&#x20;
*   `queries` **[Map][278]<[QueryDef][143], [QueryResults][147]>**&#x20;
*   `readers` **[Map][278]<[EventType][121], [EventReader][129]\<any>>**&#x20;
*   `writers` **[Map][278]<[EventType][121], [EventWriter][125]\<any>>**&#x20;

## easings

## Vec2

Class representing a 2 dimensional vector

### Parameters

*   `x` **[number][276]**  (optional, default `0`)
*   `y` **[number][276]**  (optional, default `0`)

### x

Type: [number][276]

### y

Type: [number][276]

### add

Adds the input vector or scalar to this vector

#### Parameters

*   `v` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### sub

Subtracts the input vector or scalar from this vector

#### Parameters

*   `v` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### mul

multiplies this vector by the input vector or scalar

#### Parameters

*   `v` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### div

Divides this vector by the input vector or scalar

#### Parameters

*   `v` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### dot

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[number][276]** the dot product of this vector and the input vector

### width

Type: [number][276]

Returns **[number][276]**&#x20;

### height

Type: [number][276]

Returns **[number][276]**&#x20;

### perpRight

Converts this vector to it's right normal

### perpLeft

Converts this vector to it's left normal

### unit

Converts this vector to it's unit vector

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### angle

Returns **[number][276]** The angle of the vector

### angleTo

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[number][276]** The angle of the input vector with respect to this vector

### setAngle

Sets the angle of this vector

#### Parameters

*   `angle` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### mag

Returns **[number][276]** the magnitude of this vector

### magSq

Returns **[number][276]** the magnitude of this vector squared

### setMag

Sets the magnitude of this vector to the input value

#### Parameters

*   `m` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### set

Sets this vector to the input values

#### Parameters

*   `x` **([number][276] | \[[number][276], [number][276]] | {x: [number][276], y: [number][276]})**&#x20;
*   `y` **[number][276]?**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### setFromAngle

Sets this vector to be a unit vector based on the input angle

#### Parameters

*   `angle` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### setFromPolar

Sets this vector from the input polar coordinates

#### Parameters

*   `r` **[number][276]**&#x20;
*   `angle` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### random

Randomize this vector's components between -1 and 1

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### clone

Returns **[Vec2][165]** A clone of this vector

### toArray

Returns **\[[number][276], [number][276]]** This vector's components as an array

### toObject

Returns **{x: [number][276], y: [number][276]}** This vector's components in an object

### toString

Returns **[string][275]** Serializes this vector as a string

### clamp

Clamps this vector's components between input minimums and maximimums

#### Parameters

*   `min` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;
*   `max` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### clampMag

Clamps the magnitude of this vector between the input minimum and maximum

#### Parameters

*   `min` **[number][276]**&#x20;
*   `max` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### lerp

Linearly interpolates this vector to the input vector by the input amount

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `t` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### equals

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[boolean][277]** Boolean indicating if the input vector is equal to this vector

### closeTo

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `margin` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[boolean][277]** Boolean indicating if the input vector is close to this vector within the input margins

### distanceTo

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[number][276]** The distance from this vector to the input vector

### distanceToSq

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[number][276]** The distance from this vector to the input vector squared

### manhattan

Returns **[number][276]** The manhattan values of this vector

### manhattanDistanceTo

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[number][276]** the manhattan distance between this vector and the input vector

### round

Rounds this vector to the nearest whole numbers

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### floor

Rounds the values of this vector down

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### ceil

Rounds the values of this vector up

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### roundToZero

Rounds the values towards 0

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### min

Sets this vectors values to the smallest values between this vector and the input vector

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### max

Sets this vectors values to the largest values between this vector and the input vector

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### map

Applies the input function to both components of this vector

#### Parameters

*   `fn` **function (v: [number][276]): [number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### serialize

Returns **any** Serialized string of this vector

### freeze

Freezes this vector so it's values can no longer be change in any way

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### from

Creates a new vector from the given inputs

#### Parameters

*   `v` **([Vec2][165] | [Array][274]<[number][276]> | {x: [number][276], y: [number][276]})**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### fromAngle

Creates a unit vector from a given angle

#### Parameters

*   `angle` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### fromPolar

Creates a vector from polar coordinates

#### Parameters

*   `r` **[number][276]**&#x20;
*   `angle` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### random

Creates a vector with each component randomized between -1 and 1

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### add

Creates a vector from two input vectors added together or an input vector with a scalar added to it

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### sub

Creates a vector from the first vector minus the second vector or the scalar

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### mul

Creates a vector from the first vector times the second vector or scalar

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### div

Creates a vector from the first vector divided by the second vector or scalar

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### unit

Creates a unit vector from the input vector

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### fromString

Creates a new vector from a serialized string

#### Parameters

*   `s` **[string][275]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### clamp

Creates a new vector from the input vector that is clamped between the input minimums and maximums

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `min` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;
*   `max` **([Vec2][165] | [number][276])**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### clampMag

Creates a new vector from the input vector with a magnitude clamped between the input minimum and maximum

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `min` **[number][276]**&#x20;
*   `max` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### lerp

Creates a new vector from the first input vector that is linearly interpolated to the second vector by the input amount

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `t` **[number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### round

Creates a vector from the input vector rounded to the nearest whole numbers

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### floor

Creates a new vector from the input vector with the values rounded down

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### ceil

Creates a new vector from the input vector with the values rounded up

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### roundToZero

Creates a new Vector from the input vector with it's values rounded towards 0

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### min

Creates a new vector with the smallest values from both input vectors

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### max

Creates a new vector with the largest values from both input vectors

#### Parameters

*   `a` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `b` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### map

Creates a vector from the input vector with the input function applied to each component

#### Parameters

*   `v` **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;
*   `fn` **function (v: [number][276]): [number][276]**&#x20;

Returns **[Vec2][165]**&#x20;

### deserialize

Creates a vector from the input serialized string

#### Parameters

*   `str` **[string][275]**&#x20;

[1]: #comptype

[2]: #examples

[3]: #component

[4]: #getname

[5]: #examples-1

[6]: #gettype

[7]: #examples-2

[8]: #ondestroy

[9]: #parameters

[10]: #clone

[11]: #examples-3

[12]: #serialize

[13]: #deserialize

[14]: #parameters-1

[15]: #ecs

[16]: #addcomponenttype

[17]: #parameters-2

[18]: #addcomponenttypes

[19]: #parameters-3

[20]: #addeventtype

[21]: #parameters-4

[22]: #addeventtypes

[23]: #parameters-5

[24]: #addmainsystem

[25]: #parameters-6

[26]: #addstartupsystem

[27]: #parameters-7

[28]: #addshutdownsystem

[29]: #parameters-8

[30]: #addmainsystems

[31]: #parameters-9

[32]: #addstartupsystems

[33]: #parameters-10

[34]: #addshutdownsystems

[35]: #parameters-11

[36]: #togglesystem

[37]: #parameters-12

[38]: #enablesystem

[39]: #parameters-13

[40]: #disablesystem

[41]: #parameters-14

[42]: #insertplugin

[43]: #parameters-15

[44]: #insertplugins

[45]: #parameters-16

[46]: #hascomponent

[47]: #parameters-17

[48]: #frame

[49]: #spawn

[50]: #parameters-18

[51]: #examples-4

[52]: #entity

[53]: #parameters-19

[54]: #destroy

[55]: #parameters-20

[56]: #roots

[57]: #parameters-21

[58]: #addroot

[59]: #parameters-22

[60]: #removeroot

[61]: #parameters-23

[62]: #hasresource

[63]: #parameters-24

[64]: #insertresource

[65]: #parameters-25

[66]: #haslocalresource

[67]: #parameters-26

[68]: #insertlocalresource

[69]: #parameters-27

[70]: #getresource

[71]: #parameters-28

[72]: #getlocalresource

[73]: #parameters-29

[74]: #removeresource

[75]: #parameters-30

[76]: #removelocalresource

[77]: #parameters-31

[78]: #geteventwriter

[79]: #parameters-32

[80]: #geteventreader

[81]: #parameters-33

[82]: #query

[83]: #parameters-34

[84]: #run

[85]: #parameters-35

[86]: #startup

[87]: #entitycount

[88]: #update

[89]: #shutdown

[90]: #stop

[91]: #wipe

[92]: #entity-1

[93]: #parameters-36

[94]: #has

[95]: #parameters-37

[96]: #insert

[97]: #parameters-38

[98]: #examples-5

[99]: #get

[100]: #parameters-39

[101]: #examples-6

[102]: #ecs-1

[103]: #delete

[104]: #parameters-40

[105]: #examples-7

[106]: #destroy-1

[107]: #id

[108]: #parent

[109]: #parameters-41

[110]: #children

[111]: #parameters-42

[112]: #addchild

[113]: #parameters-43

[114]: #addchildren

[115]: #parameters-44

[116]: #removechild

[117]: #parameters-45

[118]: #ecsevent

[119]: #getname-1

[120]: #gettype-1

[121]: #eventtype

[122]: #examples-8

[123]: #eventhandler

[124]: #parameters-46

[125]: #eventwriter

[126]: #parameters-47

[127]: #send

[128]: #parameters-48

[129]: #eventreader

[130]: #parameters-49

[131]: #available

[132]: #empty

[133]: #get-1

[134]: #clear

[135]: #ecsplugin

[136]: #comptypemod

[137]: #modtype

[138]: #with

[139]: #parameters-50

[140]: #without

[141]: #parameters-51

[142]: #extractcomplist

[143]: #querydef

[144]: #properties

[145]: #queryhandler

[146]: #parameters-52

[147]: #queryresults

[148]: #parameters-53

[149]: #size

[150]: #empty-1

[151]: #results

[152]: #parameters-54

[153]: #single

[154]: #entities

[155]: #entity-2

[156]: #restype

[157]: #resource

[158]: #getname-2

[159]: #gettype-2

[160]: #system

[161]: #asyncsystem

[162]: #systemcontext

[163]: #properties-1

[164]: #easings

[165]: #vec2

[166]: #parameters-55

[167]: #x

[168]: #y

[169]: #add

[170]: #parameters-56

[171]: #sub

[172]: #parameters-57

[173]: #mul

[174]: #parameters-58

[175]: #div

[176]: #parameters-59

[177]: #dot

[178]: #parameters-60

[179]: #width

[180]: #height

[181]: #perpright

[182]: #perpleft

[183]: #unit

[184]: #angle

[185]: #angleto

[186]: #parameters-61

[187]: #setangle

[188]: #parameters-62

[189]: #mag

[190]: #magsq

[191]: #setmag

[192]: #parameters-63

[193]: #set

[194]: #parameters-64

[195]: #setfromangle

[196]: #parameters-65

[197]: #setfrompolar

[198]: #parameters-66

[199]: #random

[200]: #clone-1

[201]: #toarray

[202]: #toobject

[203]: #tostring

[204]: #clamp

[205]: #parameters-67

[206]: #clampmag

[207]: #parameters-68

[208]: #lerp

[209]: #parameters-69

[210]: #equals

[211]: #parameters-70

[212]: #closeto

[213]: #parameters-71

[214]: #distanceto

[215]: #parameters-72

[216]: #distancetosq

[217]: #parameters-73

[218]: #manhattan

[219]: #manhattandistanceto

[220]: #parameters-74

[221]: #round

[222]: #floor

[223]: #ceil

[224]: #roundtozero

[225]: #min

[226]: #parameters-75

[227]: #max

[228]: #parameters-76

[229]: #map

[230]: #parameters-77

[231]: #serialize-1

[232]: #freeze

[233]: #from

[234]: #parameters-78

[235]: #fromangle

[236]: #parameters-79

[237]: #frompolar

[238]: #parameters-80

[239]: #random-1

[240]: #add-1

[241]: #parameters-81

[242]: #sub-1

[243]: #parameters-82

[244]: #mul-1

[245]: #parameters-83

[246]: #div-1

[247]: #parameters-84

[248]: #unit-1

[249]: #parameters-85

[250]: #fromstring

[251]: #parameters-86

[252]: #clamp-1

[253]: #parameters-87

[254]: #clampmag-1

[255]: #parameters-88

[256]: #lerp-1

[257]: #parameters-89

[258]: #round-1

[259]: #parameters-90

[260]: #floor-1

[261]: #parameters-91

[262]: #ceil-1

[263]: #parameters-92

[264]: #roundtozero-1

[265]: #parameters-93

[266]: #min-1

[267]: #parameters-94

[268]: #max-1

[269]: #parameters-95

[270]: #map-1

[271]: #parameters-96

[272]: #deserialize-1

[273]: #parameters-97

[274]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[275]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[276]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[277]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[278]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map

[279]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise
